---
layout: post
title: Self
permalink: self
---

I have an unbroken habit to write once a week, either here or at [Medium](http://medium.com/@wynlim). It is usually my favorite time of the weekend, where I would sit quietly, stare at the screen and wait for words to appear. Today I am nursing a slight migraine, but I don't want to break my habit, so I am going to be even more spontaneous with my writing than usual.

Someone over at Twitter asked me how to write in a way that would express ourselves better in order to connect to our audience. I told him honestly that I write with my heart, if that is not the best way to express myself, I have no idea which way would be better. 

I honestly don't care if people think I write well or if I write posts which are too long. In some perverse way I am not even writing for an audience. I think when we start writing for an audience we lost a part of ourselves. It really depends on the why – [why we write](https://medium.com/change-i-want-to-see/383df7600b00) in the first place. 

Life is extremely transient. It is a waste of our living moments trying to be an agreeable person. I take that back. It is a huge waste of our lives living as who we are not. It came to me in the middle of my [New York](https://medium.com/fragmented-musings/99e880e8bdb0) trip. I stopped in the middle of my thoughts and wondered. Why am I waiting to be the person I want to be? 

We are afraid because we have something to lose, but if we're afraid of losing we will never be able to take the risks needed to truly live and love. If I cannot be my true self, people around me will always be shortchanged because I can never be capable of giving them the best of me. We are always waiting for people to validate us, only to realize that no amount of validation would suffice if we cannot validate ourselves. 

I want to write as me, live as me, love as me, work as me. And my identity will keep on shifting because I will keep on growing. Every now and then I go through phases where I tear myself apart and put myself back together again. I feel like I just went through multiple phases of this and I am only expecting more to come. 

At the end of my life, I want to look back at everything I have attempted to do and know that at the very least my very self wasn't one of the obstacles put in front of me.